# Data to Insights: [v1.0]: M17 L17 Practice with ML APIs in Cloud Datalab

## Setting up Google Cloud Datalab on a Compute Engine VM

Duration is 1 min

In this lab, you set up Cloud Datalab using Google Cloud Shell as well as query and Overview

In this lab you use Machine Learning APIs from within Datalab.

What you learn
In this lab, you learn how to invoke ML APIs from Python and use their results.

What you need
You must have completed Lab 0 and have the following:

- logged into GCP Console with your Qwiklabs generated account
- created Datalab instance

## Introduction

Duration is 1 min

In this lab, you will invoke ML APIs from Datalab to carry out some representative tasks:

- Vision API to detect text in an image
- Translate API to translate that text into English
- Natural Language API to find the sentiment of some famous quotes
- Speech API to transcribe an audio file

ML APIs are microservices. When we build ML models ourselves, it should be our goal to make them so easy to use and stand-alone.

## Enable APIs and Get API key

Duration is 1 min

### Step 1

From the GCP console menu, select APIs and services and select Library

### Step 2

In the search box, type vision to find the Google Cloud Vision API and click on the hyperlink.

### Step 3

Click Enable if necessary

### Step 4

Follow the same process to enable Translate API, Speech API, and Natural Language APIs.

### Step 5

From the GCP console menu, select APIs and services and select Credentials.

### Step 6

If you do not already have an API key, click the Create credentials button and select API key. Once created, click close. You will need this API key in the notebook later.

## Invoke ML APIs from Datalab

Duration is 8 min

### Step 1

Open Cloud Shell and Create a new Datalab instance:

`datalab create apidemo`

> Note: If the cloud shell used for running the datalab command is closed or interrupted, the connection to your Cloud Datalab VM will terminate. If that happens, you may be able to reconnect using the command ‘datalab connect mydatalabvm' in your new Cloud Shell. Once connected, try the above step again.

### Step 2

Download the ipynb workbook for the [lab here](https://storage.googleapis.com/data-insights-course/mlapis.ipynb)

### Step 3

Inside of Cloud Datalab, click upload and navigate to the mlapis.ipynb you downloaded. Upload it, give it a name and then open the notebook.

### Step 4

Read the commentary, then run the Python snippets (Use Shift+Enter to run each piece of code) in the cell, step by step. Make sure to insert your API Key in the first Python cell.
